The company said it added 1.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States in the third quarter of the year, reaching the high end of its own projections and surpassing the 30 million mark domestically for the first time. In international markets, where it is less established, Netfix added more than 1.4 million subscribers for a total of 9.2 million.

The results impressed investors; the company’s stock, which had already almost tripled this year, rose about 10 percent in after-hours trading to $390, beating its previous high. But the Netflix chief executive, Reed Hastings, and chief financial officer, David Wells, sought to tamper enthusiasm about the stock price. In their quarterly letter to shareholders, they said “some of the euphoria today feels like 2003,” when Netflix’s stock price quintupled in one year before sliding back to single-digit levels.

“We do our best to ignore the volatility in our stock,” the executives wrote as they redirected attention toward their membership totals, which they said have grown “every year fairly steadily.”

Netflix had projected that it would end the third quarter with somewhere between 30.5 million and 31.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States; on Monday, it said the total was 31.1 million, and released a projection for the fourth quarter of 32.7 million to 33.5 million. The company also said it expected to cross the 10 million mark internationally sometime during the fourth quarter.

Investors and analysts have paid close attention to the subscriber projections because Netflix has previously predicted that it could someday have 60 million to 90 million members in the United States, and even more overseas. On Monday, Mr. Hastings, who frequently singles out HBO as Netflix’s chief competitor, hinted at a specific number it’s aiming for.

“We have done well but we have a long way to go to match HBO’s 114 million global member count or their well-deserved Emmy Award leadership,” he wrote in the shareholders letter.

Mr. Hastings also shed a little light on the relative success of Netflix’s original television shows, like “House of Cards,” the first such show for the service. “House of Cards” has apparently been overtaken by a bigger hit, “Orange is the New Black,” which had its debut at the beginning of the third quarter.

Without sharing any specific ratings figures — Netflix has steadfastly refused to do so — Mr. Hastings wrote that “Orange” will “end the year as our most-watched original series ever.”

In a vote of confidence for the series, which stars Taylor Schilling as an inmate in a women’s prison, Netflix ordered a second season of “Orange” before the first season even started. Given the popularity of the first season, “we believe the audience for Season 2 will grow substantially,” Mr. Hastings wrote.

The shareholder’s letter barely mentioned the other original series that Netflix introduced in the third quarter, a half-hour series by Ricky Gervais called “Derek.”

As important as original series are — they give Netflix something special to promote and, as Mr. Hastings wrote on Monday, they “get most of the headlines” — the typical Netflix subscriber still spends a lot more time streaming repeats of TV shows that were originally shown elsewhere. While the company said it expected to double the amount it spends on original programming in 2014, the unspecified total amount will still represent less than 10 percent of all the money it spends on content.

Twitter will close its music app, which was introduced with great fanfare six months ago but has failed to gain traction in the marketplace. The company is expected to rethink its music strategy, according to a person with knowledge of its plans.

The app, Twitter #Music, has been a rare flop for Twitter, whose video service Vine, for example, has been a success over roughly the same period. Twitter #Music, which was introduced in April accompanied by hype from celebrities like Ryan Seacrest, was intended to acquaint users with new acts and see what their contacts were listening to.

But critics complained that by remaining separate from Twitter’s main news feed, the app never attracted much attention. According to the technology news site AllThingsD, which was the first to report on the app’s demise, Twitter #Music quickly rose to No. 6 on Apple’s free app rankings shortly after being started, but gradually faded; one app analytics company, Onavo, puts the app at No. 1,672 on its list. (Vine, which places short videos within a tweet, is No. 18 on that list.)

A spokeswoman for Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday afternoon, and it was not clear how, or when, the app would be shut. The person with knowledge of the plans spoke anonymously because the discussions behind the app were private.

But the company is believed to be developing other ways to integrate music more closely into its news feed. Recently, the company hired two executives with significant experience in music technology: Nathan Hubbard, the former president of Ticketmaster, was named Twitter’s head of commerce in August; and Bob Moczydlowsky, from the music marketing service Topspin Media, became its head of music last month.

Twitter has filed for an initial public offering of stock, and has said that it expects to raise about $1 billion from the sale.

Music remains one of the most popular topics on Twitter, and pop stars routinely dominate its list of the most popular personalities on the service. For example, 7 of the top 10 accounts are currently musicians; the top three are Justin Bieber, Katy Perry and Lady Gaga, just ahead of President Obama.

Music executives, always in search of charts that accurately reflect the changing online marketplace, have expressed frustration with Twitter’s app.

“Our data shows that sharing music is a strong predictor of a song’s hit worthiness, so an app that surfaced this information could have been invaluable," said Jay Frank, the chief executive of the label DigSin and the author of music marketing books like "FutureHit.DNA."

“Unfortunately, we couldn’t understand the methodology used in the #Music chart,” Mr. Frank added. “We had songs on our label that had more retweets than charting songs, yet we wouldn’t show up on the #Music chart. After a few times seeing this disparity, we just stopped looking.”

SAN FRANCISCO — Megan Miller knows that cockroaches are packed with protein and she says they can be made into a surprisingly tasty treat. But if that is a bit too avant-garde to believe, do you think you might like crickets if they were “ground up into a powder so you can’t see wings or legs?”

Ms. Miller believes you would.

She is the co-founder of Chirp Farms, a start-up firm here that is dedicated to making food like the company’s flagship Chirp bars, which are $2.50 morsels made of crickets. They are expected to arrive in stores next year.

While making food from insects might sound fascinating — or icky — the approach she is taking, treating Chirp Farms like a technology start-up rather than a food outfit, is what really makes the company interesting.

“My background is digital product development,” Ms. Miller said in an interview. “I’m using the same kinds of thinking that I used in technology start-ups while I build this food business, too.” In addition to starting Chirp Farms, she is the director of research and development for Bonnier, a publishing company.

While a growing number of start-ups like Chirp Farms have received money from big venture capital firms, exactly how these companies plan to compete with the entrenched giants of the food industry has not been clear.

Nonetheless, they are undeterred. They see a big, slow-moving market just begging to be invaded by someone with new ideas and a new way of building a business.

“What is happening right now is that Silicon Valley is starting to see opportunities for disruption in other areas besides traditional technology,” Ms. Miller said.

If this sounds familiar, it is. Just as tech took on music, first with Napster and later with services like iTunes and Spotify; just as Amazon took on books and eventually the entire world of retailing; and just as Craigslist took on traditional classified advertising, these food start-ups think it is not so far-fetched to go after the food industry.

“The food system is bizarre and ineffectual and completely lacking in innovation,” said Josh Tetrick, founder and chief executive of Hampton Creek Foods, which makes imitation egg products using plants.

Creating a successful food company requires a lot more than just a good idea. There are government rules and regulations and competition from entrenched conglomerates with vast distribution systems.

These obstacles will not be easily overcome. But these start-ups are trying to do that by behaving like the most successful tech outfits that have gone from ideas to multibillion dollar businesses.

Some have programmers writing code to test out snacks and determine the types of ingredients that can go together. Some approach management in the same way start-ups run their operations, using a process called Agile methodology, in which project managers work in very small teams with programmers and have software development practices like Scrum that are intended to move and build products very quickly.

Essentially, they are organizing the development of food products in much the same way that tech start-ups organize code.

“You have to think in terms of scaling, like software, and that’s what Silicon Valley brings to the food start-ups, where we know how to create something small, then iterate rapidly, and finally scale it,” Ms. Miller said.

The interior of the San Francisco offices of Hampton Creek looks like a cross between Walter White’s meth lab in “Breaking Bad,” a nightclub and a standard-issue start-up. Plants that might soon be turned into substitute egg products sit along the windowsill. Thirty young (and hip) programmers, marketers and scientists zip about to loud music blaring from speakers.

Employees at the company do not talk about food as food, but rather as if they were programming an app to be sold in the iTunes store.

“While a chicken egg will never change, our idea is that we can have a product where we push updates into the system, just like Apple updates its iOS operating system.” Mr. Tetrick said. “So our mayo is version 1.0, and the next version will be 2.0, which will be less expensive and last twice as long.”

Grocery stores are starting to pay attention. Hampton Creek announced last week that it had set up a partnership with Whole Foods that would bring Just Mayo, the company’s plant-based mayonnaise, to retail shelves across the country.

Thomas Manuel, the chief executive of Nu-Tek Food Science, which makes a lower-sodium salt product, has worked in the food and agriculture industry for 43 years. He knows the difficulties of entering the business and questions if some of these food start-ups will eventually be snapped up by the giants they are trying to change or simply copied out of existence.

“Unlike other industries in technology, where people can carry patents and protect their ideas, the majority of the food industry doesn’t have that,” Mr. Manuel said. “So if you come along with a great idea and it starts to become really successful, then someone else can just come along and copy it.”

But there might be room for both entrenched corporations and start-ups in the future of the food industry.

A report issued by the United Nations this year warned that by 2050, the world’s population is expected to reach nine billion people and that there are not enough resources on the planet to feed them. The report suggested insects as a solution.

Can Silicon Valley ingenuity make eating insects appetizing to Western palates?

“As the population grows, there is not going to be enough protein for people. There is no way we can produce meat at the scale,” Ms. Miller said. “What we’re trying to do is popularize a protein that hasn’t made it into Western culture yet, and that’s going to be very disruptive.”

If you're wondering how the GTA Online review is going, there's been a slight snag: I logged in on Sunday to discover that my level 20ish character I'd been playing with all week is gone, vanished, along with all my money, my property and my cars. Character deletion was distressingly commonplace during GTA Online's first few days, but after Friday's title update, which fixed several issues with the game (including the ridiculous medical fees discussed in the last updates), a second wave of deletions appears to have happened on Saturday night and Sunday, with many, many players reporting the same issue.

Rockstar is investigating the problem and has some official advice for those affected, which you can read all about here.

The short version: there appears to be no guarantee that progress will be restored, but in the meantime, DO NOT create another character in your old one's place, always quit out of GTA Online through the menus, and be aware that temporary characters can't be saved to the cloud. That said, I've always followed all of that advice and I lost my character anyway.

To reiterate the advice given in the review in progress below: playing GTA Online right now involves an eye-watering level of risk. Do not play this game right now unless you're okay with the possibility of losing everything you've done because of an accident with the cloud servers. It really stings.

I'm pretty furious. This is what public betas are for. Currently I'm not sure GTA Online even qualifies as a beta - it feels more like alpha code. This is a potentially incredible game with an extraordinary level of ambition, but for it to launch in this state undermines all of that. Needless to say, the review in progress will be suspended until I get my character back, if I ever do.

In the meantime, you can read previous updates below.

Despite all of that, though – I inexplicably lost something like 10k from my bank account between Tuesday night and Thursday morning – I managed to have a really good time with GTA Online yesterday. I went on an accidental rampage with two friends, Mike and Craig, which began with Mike punching a guy on the beach out of boredom whilst I rescued Craig from an island on a Seashark and ended with a 30-minute, 4-star police chase that had all of us running through the mountains, out of ammo, pursued by a helicopter and a trail of twenty cop cars. You could see the chase from miles away. I presume everyone else on the map was robbing shops with impunity whilst we kept the entirety of the LSPD police force busy.

“
We ended up escaping into the mountains with no ammo and no vehicle.

At one point during this ridiculous chase I was followed down Mount Chilad by a trail of police vehicles, which careened down the side of the mountain and caused a massive pile-up by a campsite at its foot. I do not recommend trying to drive a Pegassi along a mountain hiking trail, by the way. After we’d finally escaped the police, trapped in the mountains with no ammo and no vehicle after discovering that the cable car doesn’t work in GTA Online, we were rescued by a well-meaning fellow player who let one of us ride in his car whilst the other surfed on the hood.

When we got to the bottom of the mountain, Mike shot him. Dude, if you’re out there, I’m so sorry for his behaviour, we were very grateful for the lift, and I very much understand why you interpreted me standing on the bonnet of your car with an Uzi as a threat rather than the apologetic peace gesture I intended. I didn’t want to have to shotgun you in the face from behind your own car.

We also found a stunt jump that took us over the fence and into the airport, where we stole two helicopters and used them to make a dramatic getaway after robbing a convenience store. Mike killed me during said robbery by accidentally clubbing me with the butt of his gun instead of shooting at the ground to intimidate the guy behind the counter, but he shared the loot afterwards, so all was forgiven. You may be starting to notice a pattern with Mike.

This is the stuff GTA Online was made for. Deathmatches and racing are entertaining, but they don’t allow for this kind of self-directed fun.

“
Most of the issues right now are technical, but I get the feeling that there may be more enduring problems with the economy.

My first extended play session with GTA Online did highlight some potential complications that weren’t apparent before, however. Most of its issues right now are technical, but I get the feeling that there may be more enduring problems with the in-game economy. The way that money works right now makes it difficult to earn much – for me the sum total of a day’s work yesterday was about 7k, and I got curious enough about where on earth all my money was going to examine the Maze Bank transaction log for evidence. You’re charged anything from $600 to $1000 for medical expenses every time you die (I couldn’t quite figure out whether that applied just to the open world or to Jobs too, but I presume it’s the former), and there are hidden entry fees for jobs that range from $200 to $300. Ammo, meanwhile, costs $60 per box of rounds, and you get through it quickly.

It might not sound like much, but when you’re typically earning $500-1500 per Job it adds up fast to erase most of your profits. The cheapest garage in Lost Santos is $25,000 and property values are upwards of $125,000 for a small apartment – new guns, cars and especially boats and planes are as expensive as you’d expect, too. I don’t mind working hard for expensive stuff, but I resent being charged for dying. That surely discourages messing around and experimenting in San Andreas, and grants impromptu police chases or gang wars potentially ruinous financial implications.

In other words, it impugns exactly the kind of chaotic fun that GTA’s open world encourages. Now that I know our little adventure earlier cost us about $4,000 in medical and bail fees, not to mention my wrecked car, it’s tainted the experience.

It also makes me feel like I’m being pushed towards paying real money for GTA dollars, which rankles me. Rockstar has temporarily suspended microtransactions, presumably because large sums of money and indeed entire characters are regularly disappearing from their servers at the moment, but they’ll be back. Rockstar is correct in its claims that you can’t pay to win, but given that you can use GTA dollars to buy yourself car and weapon modifications after you’ve ranked up enough to unlock them, you can definitely pay to give yourself a small advantage.

Once again, I don’t mind working hard to earn cash, and I don’t think there’s anything wrong with Rockstar using microtransactions to make money out of GTA Online, which is essentially an otherwise free service. But right now it feels like the economy needs some adjustment if it’s going to feel fair.

The current situation with GTA Online hasn’t changed much since launch: it’s enormous fun when it works, but right now it barely works. The possibility of losing hard-earned character progress and money because the game is not fully functional does not make for a stress-free experience. With the game in this state and several major features still waiting to be implemented, it will be a while before we can give a full verdict. For now, it’s still best to approach with caution.

Well, it's fair to say that Grand Theft Auto Online hasn't been the smoothest online launch in history. Frankly it was borderline disastrous. Since going live just before 12pm yesterday in the UK and a few hours later in the US, players have been reporting everything from single-player savegame corruption to mysterious crashes to a complete inability to get online at all - the first tutorial race is still a particular sticking point. To Rockstar's credit, it has openly acknowledged all of these issues and is working hard to resolve them, an endeavour with which I wish them the best of luck; yesterday it seemed like almost everyone was having trouble.

Such teething troubles are to be expected at any major online launch, but GTA Online's are worst than most. I couldn't get it to work all day, but finally managed to get into a session evening and play for a good few hours without too many issues - save a horrible moment this morning where it looked like it had deleted all my progress. It took several attempts to get through the tutorial, though - at one point just after the first race the game completely collapsed, resulting in a bizarre series of glitches where first night turned into day in the space of three seconds, then my HUD disappeared, then my car disappeared and I became a disembodied floating gun, then the world imploded. It was actually quite entertaining:

The game I'm playing right now, then, is better that the beta in several ways - character creation and celebratory animations are much improved, to name two of the most immediately obvious ones - but it also doesn't work properly. When it does work it's great fun, but the reality is that right now at the time of writing, you're lucky if you can get past the tutorial mission.

“
What I'm playing right now is better than the beta, but it also doesn't work properly yet.

Most of what I've been doing so far is jumping between Jobs, trying to get a feel for the breadth of missions that GTA Online offers. Jobs are generic missions, essentially: deathmatch and team deathmatches, last man or last team standing, and races with all vehicles, though right now at rank 7 it seems I'm still restricted to land vehicles only. The deathmatch maps are adapted areas of Los Santos, adjusted to provide plenty of verticality and numerous hiding places - in the beta I could only get matches with maybe two or three people together, but with 8 or 10 these areas really come alive. Weapons scattered around the map mean you aren't stuck with your starting pistol and evens out the balance between higher- and lower-rank players.

I've been doing a lot of hiding behind walls with a submachine gun, waiting for people to run past. GTA's auto-aim means that death is usually sudden, and avoiding being seen is the most effective way to rack up kill streaks. Stealth is a valid tactic if you want to stay off the enemy's radar. If you get killed several times in a row you can also activate a one-time perk like quadruple damage, which helps alleviate the frustration. I met a great group of players in one session, and as you hop from Job to Job the game keeps you in the same group, letting us try out some mountain biking and city races inbetween shooting at each other.

Matchmaking seems problematic at the moment, though. If a few players drop out of your session, the game has trouble inviting others into your lobby, meaning you have to either continue with just two or three players or quit out and start again with a new group.

Missions are still the highlight for me at the moment - the Jobs start to blend into each other after a while, and the extra direction offered by Missions is welcome. So far I've assaulted a meth lab, stolen police evidence, nicked a bunch of drugs from some hippies and repossessed a few cars. I find working as part of a team to achieve something more satisfying than free-for-all deathmatches, and I'm really looking forward to discovering co-operative heists later on.

I've met mostly decent people in GTA Online so far, happily. The Reputation system brands players Good Sports or Bad Sports based on how they behave and whether they're abusive, rewarding Good Sports with a periodic cash bonus, but I'm not sure how this works right now, as there doesn't seem to be away to report a player as a Bad Sport (I couldn't find it, anyway). I've also met some real jerks, though, like this guy, who stole my car and ran me over with it when I pulled up to let him in the passenger seat. In a CO-OP MISSION. BAD sport (although admittedly I did laugh). Satisfyingly, he ran away and died shortly after.

What I learned from this incident is to set your personal vehicle access privileges to "only me". Leaving it set to "anyone" is just asking for trouble. I'm also enormously thankful for the "Passive Mode" option, which stops other players from being able to run up and shoot you in the head and costs $100 to activate temporarily.

“
Exploring San Andreas with friends is a very different proposition to being chucked into a session with random strangers.

Weirdly, I couldn't find much to do beyond deathmatches and races on the map in my first play session. In the beta there were base jumps and other, more unusual or outlandish Jobs to complement those, like aerial battles or military base assaults - I'm assuming they are locked until later in this full build.

GTA Online's main problem right now, apart from all the technical issues, is discoverability. The missions and Jobs available on the map changed every single time I returned to the open world; it's impossible to keep track. The master Job List and Mission List are hidden away in menus, and with over 500 of them there's a lot to go through. After you've finished one, your group of players is offered a seemingly random selection of six more to choose from, but if you like the look of one and the group votes for another there's no way to find it again save writing down the name of it and looking for it in the master list, at least not that I can find. You can bookmark missions, which saves them to a list, but you can only do that after you've played it.

The most unfortunate consequence of the server issues, though, is that I've not been able to play as part of a Crew yet. Exploring San Andreas with friends is a very different proposition to being chucked into a session with random strangers. Assuming the game gets more stable over the next day or two, that's what I'm looking forward to the most.

Check back throughout the week for more updates in the run-up to the review.

