The company said it added 1.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States in the third quarter of the year, reaching the high end of its own projections and surpassing the 30 million mark domestically for the first time. In international markets, where it is less established, Netfix added more than 1.4 million subscribers for a total of 9.2 million.

The results impressed investors; the company’s stock, which had already almost tripled this year, rose about 10 percent in after-hours trading to $390, beating its previous high. But the Netflix chief executive, Reed Hastings, and chief financial officer, David Wells, sought to tamper enthusiasm about the stock price. In their quarterly letter to shareholders, they said “some of the euphoria today feels like 2003,” when Netflix’s stock price quintupled in one year before sliding back to single-digit levels.

“We do our best to ignore the volatility in our stock,” the executives wrote as they redirected attention toward their membership totals, which they said have grown “every year fairly steadily.”

Netflix had projected that it would end the third quarter with somewhere between 30.5 million and 31.3 million streaming subscribers in the United States; on Monday, it said the total was 31.1 million, and released a projection for the fourth quarter of 32.7 million to 33.5 million. The company also said it expected to cross the 10 million mark internationally sometime during the fourth quarter.

Investors and analysts have paid close attention to the subscriber projections because Netflix has previously predicted that it could someday have 60 million to 90 million members in the United States, and even more overseas. On Monday, Mr. Hastings, who frequently singles out HBO as Netflix’s chief competitor, hinted at a specific number it’s aiming for.

“We have done well but we have a long way to go to match HBO’s 114 million global member count or their well-deserved Emmy Award leadership,” he wrote in the shareholders letter.

Mr. Hastings also shed a little light on the relative success of Netflix’s original television shows, like “House of Cards,” the first such show for the service. “House of Cards” has apparently been overtaken by a bigger hit, “Orange is the New Black,” which had its debut at the beginning of the third quarter.

Without sharing any specific ratings figures — Netflix has steadfastly refused to do so — Mr. Hastings wrote that “Orange” will “end the year as our most-watched original series ever.”

In a vote of confidence for the series, which stars Taylor Schilling as an inmate in a women’s prison, Netflix ordered a second season of “Orange” before the first season even started. Given the popularity of the first season, “we believe the audience for Season 2 will grow substantially,” Mr. Hastings wrote.

The shareholder’s letter barely mentioned the other original series that Netflix introduced in the third quarter, a half-hour series by Ricky Gervais called “Derek.”

As important as original series are — they give Netflix something special to promote and, as Mr. Hastings wrote on Monday, they “get most of the headlines” — the typical Netflix subscriber still spends a lot more time streaming repeats of TV shows that were originally shown elsewhere. While the company said it expected to double the amount it spends on original programming in 2014, the unspecified total amount will still represent less than 10 percent of all the money it spends on content.

Twitter will close its music app, which was introduced with great fanfare six months ago but has failed to gain traction in the marketplace. The company is expected to rethink its music strategy, according to a person with knowledge of its plans.

The app, Twitter #Music, has been a rare flop for Twitter, whose video service Vine, for example, has been a success over roughly the same period. Twitter #Music, which was introduced in April accompanied by hype from celebrities like Ryan Seacrest, was intended to acquaint users with new acts and see what their contacts were listening to.

But critics complained that by remaining separate from Twitter’s main news feed, the app never attracted much attention. According to the technology news site AllThingsD, which was the first to report on the app’s demise, Twitter #Music quickly rose to No. 6 on Apple’s free app rankings shortly after being started, but gradually faded; one app analytics company, Onavo, puts the app at No. 1,672 on its list. (Vine, which places short videos within a tweet, is No. 18 on that list.)

A spokeswoman for Twitter did not immediately respond to a request for comment on Monday afternoon, and it was not clear how, or when, the app would be shut. The person with knowledge of the plans spoke anonymously because the discussions behind the app were private.

But the company is believed to be developing other ways to integrate music more closely into its news feed. Recently, the company hired two executives with significant experience in music technology: Nathan Hubbard, the former president of Ticketmaster, was named Twitter’s head of commerce in August; and Bob Moczydlowsky, from the music marketing service Topspin Media, became its head of music last month.

Twitter has filed for an initial public offering of stock, and has said that it expects to raise about $1 billion from the sale.

Music remains one of the most popular topics on Twitter, and pop stars routinely dominate its list of the most popular personalities on the service. For example, 7 of the top 10 accounts are currently musicians; the top three are Justin Bieber, Katy Perry and Lady Gaga, just ahead of President Obama.

Music executives, always in search of charts that accurately reflect the changing online marketplace, have expressed frustration with Twitter’s app.

“Our data shows that sharing music is a strong predictor of a song’s hit worthiness, so an app that surfaced this information could have been invaluable," said Jay Frank, the chief executive of the label DigSin and the author of music marketing books like "FutureHit.DNA."

“Unfortunately, we couldn’t understand the methodology used in the #Music chart,” Mr. Frank added. “We had songs on our label that had more retweets than charting songs, yet we wouldn’t show up on the #Music chart. After a few times seeing this disparity, we just stopped looking.”

SAN FRANCISCO — Megan Miller knows that cockroaches are packed with protein and she says they can be made into a surprisingly tasty treat. But if that is a bit too avant-garde to believe, do you think you might like crickets if they were “ground up into a powder so you can’t see wings or legs?”

Ms. Miller believes you would.

She is the co-founder of Chirp Farms, a start-up firm here that is dedicated to making food like the company’s flagship Chirp bars, which are $2.50 morsels made of crickets. They are expected to arrive in stores next year.

While making food from insects might sound fascinating — or icky — the approach she is taking, treating Chirp Farms like a technology start-up rather than a food outfit, is what really makes the company interesting.

“My background is digital product development,” Ms. Miller said in an interview. “I’m using the same kinds of thinking that I used in technology start-ups while I build this food business, too.” In addition to starting Chirp Farms, she is the director of research and development for Bonnier, a publishing company.

While a growing number of start-ups like Chirp Farms have received money from big venture capital firms, exactly how these companies plan to compete with the entrenched giants of the food industry has not been clear.

Nonetheless, they are undeterred. They see a big, slow-moving market just begging to be invaded by someone with new ideas and a new way of building a business.

“What is happening right now is that Silicon Valley is starting to see opportunities for disruption in other areas besides traditional technology,” Ms. Miller said.

If this sounds familiar, it is. Just as tech took on music, first with Napster and later with services like iTunes and Spotify; just as Amazon took on books and eventually the entire world of retailing; and just as Craigslist took on traditional classified advertising, these food start-ups think it is not so far-fetched to go after the food industry.

“The food system is bizarre and ineffectual and completely lacking in innovation,” said Josh Tetrick, founder and chief executive of Hampton Creek Foods, which makes imitation egg products using plants.

Creating a successful food company requires a lot more than just a good idea. There are government rules and regulations and competition from entrenched conglomerates with vast distribution systems.

These obstacles will not be easily overcome. But these start-ups are trying to do that by behaving like the most successful tech outfits that have gone from ideas to multibillion dollar businesses.

Some have programmers writing code to test out snacks and determine the types of ingredients that can go together. Some approach management in the same way start-ups run their operations, using a process called Agile methodology, in which project managers work in very small teams with programmers and have software development practices like Scrum that are intended to move and build products very quickly.